[Issuance]: additional features (#380)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/authentic-sources.rst

.. include:: ../common/common_definitions.rst

Authentic Sources
+++++++++++++++++++

> Authentic Sources are responsible for the authenticity of the User's attributes provided as Digital Credentials by the PID/(Q)EAA Provider. During the Issuance Flow, PID/(Q)EAA Providers, after authenticating the User, request from Authentic Sources the attributes required to provide the credential requested by the User. If PID/(Q)EAA Providers and Authentic Sources are both allowed to use PDND, the communication between them MUST be done in compliance with [`MODI`_] and [`PDND`_] according to the following rules. In particular, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentic Sources are responsible for the authenticity of the User's attributes provided as Digital Credentials by the PID/(Q)EAA Provider. During the Issuance Flow, PID/(Q)EAA Providers, after authenticating the User, request from Authentic Sources the attributes required to provide the requested Credential. If PID/(Q)EAA Providers and Authentic Sources are both allowed to use PDND, the communication between them is accomplished in compliance with [`MODI`_] and [`PDND`_] and according to the rules defined within this specification. In particular, 
```

    - The Authentic Source MUST provide an e-service registered within the PDND catalogue which the PID/(Q)EAA Provider, as the recipient, MUST use to request the User's attributes.
    - In case of unavailability of the User's attributes, the Authentic Source MUST provide a response to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider with an estimation time when a new request can be sent. 

>     - The PID(Q)EAA Provider MUST provide to the Authentic Source an evidence that 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The PID/(Q)EAA Provider MUST provide to the Authentic Source an evidence that 
```

>         - the request for User attributes is related to a request by a User and regarding data of which he/she is the holder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - the request for Users attributes is related to data about themselves.
```

>     - The PID/(Q)EAA Provider MUST provide to the Authentic Source an evidence that 
>     
>         - the request for Users attributes is related to data about themselves.
>         - the request for User attributes comes from a valid Wallet Instance. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The PID/(Q)EAA Provider MUST provide to the Authentic Source an evidence that:
    
        - the request for Users attributes is related to data about themselves;
        - the request for User attributes comes from a valid Wallet Instance. 

```

>         - the request for User attributes comes from a valid and authentic Wallet Instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - the request for User attributes comes from a valid Wallet Instance. 
```

>     - The PID/(Q)EAA Provider MUST make available to the Authentic Source an e-service for notifications on attributes availability and validity status (revocation or updates). The Authentic Source MUST use this e-service to send the PID/(Q)EAA Provider both notifications on the availability of the User's attributes as well as those relating to the attributes validity status. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The PID/(Q)EAA Provider MUST make available to the Authentic Source an e-service for notifications on attributes availability and validity status (revocation or updates). The Authentic Source MUST use this e-service to notify to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider the notifications on the availability of the User's attributes as well as those relating to the attributes updates. 
```

    - The protocol flow MUST ensure integrity, authenticity, and non-repudiation of the exchanged data between the Authentic Source and the PID/(Q)EAA Provider. 

>     - The e-services MUST be implemented in REST. SOAP protocol MUST NOT be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The e-services MUST be implemented in REST. SOAP protocol MUST NOT be used.
```

Security Patterns
----------------------

The following security patterns and profiles are applicable: 

>     - **[REST_JWS_2021_POP]** JWS POP Voucher Issuing Profile (*Annex 3 - Standards and technical details used for Voucher Authorization* [`PDND`_]): REQUIRED. It adds a proof of possession on the Voucher. The client using the Voucher to access an e-service MUST give proof of possession of the private key whose public is attested on the Voucher.  

Reviewer: terms like `JWS POP Voucher` and e-service should be clarified to the readers

>     - **[REST_JWS_2021_POP]** JWS POP Voucher Issuing Profile (*Annex 3 - Standards and technical details used for Voucher Authorization* [`PDND`_]): REQUIRED. It adds a proof of possession on the Voucher. The client using the Voucher to access an e-service MUST give proof of possession of the private key whose public is attested on the Voucher.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **[REST_JWS_2021_POP]** JWS POP Voucher Issuing Profile (*Annex 3 - Standards and technical details used for Voucher Authorization* [`PDND`_]): REQUIRED. It adds a proof of possession on the Voucher. The client using the Voucher to access an e-service MUST demonstrate the proof of possession of the private key whose public is attested on the Voucher.  
```

we should clarify that PDND Voucher is actually an OAuth 2.0 Token

>     - **[ID_AUTH_REST_02]** Client Authentication with X.509 certificate with uniqueness of the token/message (*Annex 2 - Security Pattern *[`MODI`_]): REQUIRED. It guarantees trust between the Authentic Source and the PID/(Q)EAA Provider and provides a mitigation against replay attacks.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **[ID_AUTH_REST_02]** Client Authentication with X.509 certificate with uniqueness of the token/message (*Annex 2 - Security Pattern* [`MODI`_]): REQUIRED. It guarantees trust between the Authentic Source and the PID/(Q)EAA Provider and provides a mitigation against replay attacks.
```

    - **[INTEGRITY_REST_01]** REST message payload integrity (*Annex 2 - Security Pattern* [`MODI`_]): REQUIRED. It adds message payload integrity of the HTTP POST request.  

>     - **[AUDIT_REST_02]** submission of audit data within the request (*Annex 2 - Security Pattern* [`MODI`_]): OPTIONAL. The Authentic Source MAY request an evidence about the User Authentication related to the User's attributes requested by the PID/(Q)EAA Provider and/or a proof that the Wallet Instance is valid and authentic. In this case this pattern MUST be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **[AUDIT_REST_02]** submission of audit data within the request (*Annex 2 - Security Pattern* [`MODI`_]): OPTIONAL. The Authentic Source MAY request an evidence about the User Authentication related to the User's attributes requested by the PID/(Q)EAA Provider and/or a proof that the Wallet Instance is valid. In this case this pattern MUST be used.
```
